[plugin] Add amberflo.io api metering plugin (#4551)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_hub/amberflo/kong-plugin-amberflo/_index.md

---
name: Amberflo.io API Metering
publisher: Amberflo.io Inc.
version: 0.2.x

categories:
  - analytics-monitoring
  - logging

type: plugin

desc: API usage metering and usage-based billing.

description: |
  This plugin allows you to understand customer [API usage](https://www.amberflo.io/products/metering-cloud) and implement [usage-based price & billing](https://www.amberflo.io/products/billing-cloud) by metering the requests with [Amberflo.io](https://amberflo.io).

>   It supports high-volume HTTP(s) usage without adding latency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It supports high-volume HTTP(S) usage without adding latency.
```

  [Amberflo](https://amberflo.io) is the simplest way to integrate metering into your application. [Sign up for free](https://ui.amberflo.io/) to get started.

support_url: https://github.com/amberflo/kong-plugin-amberflo/issues

source_code: https://github.com/amberflo/kong-plugin-amberflo

license_url: https://github.com/amberflo/kong-plugin-amberflo/blob/main/LICENSE

privacy_policy_url: https://www.amberflo.io/privacy-policy

terms_of_service_url: https://www.amberflo.io/terms-of-use

kong_version_compatibility:
  community_edition:
    compatible:
      - 3.0.x
  enterprise_edition:
    compatible:
      - 3.0.x

params:
  name: amberflo
  service_id: true
  route_id: true
  protocols:
    - http
    - https
  dbless_compatible: 'yes'

>   dbless_explanation: The plugin is compatible with any with DB-less mode including `local`, `cluster`, and `redis`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  dbless_explanation: The plugin is compatible with any with DB-less mode, including `local`, `cluster`, and `redis`.
```

  config:
    - name: apiKey
      required: true
      description: Your Amberflo API key
    - name: meterApiName
      required: true
      description: Meter for metering the requests
    - name: customerHeader
      required: true
      description: Header from which to get the Amberflo `customerId`
    - name: intervalSeconds
      required: false
      default: "`1`"
      description: Send the meter record batch every `x` seconds
    - name: batchSize
      required: false
      default: "`10`"

>       description: Send the meter record batch when it reaches this size

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      description: The size at which to send the meter record batch.
```

    - name: methodDimension
      required: false

>       description: Dimension name for the request method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      description: The dimension name for the request method.
```

    - name: hostDimension
      required: false

>       description: Dimension name for the target url host

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      description: The dimension name for the target URL host.
```

    - name: routeDimension
      required: false

>       description: Dimension name for the route name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      description: The dimension name for the route name.
```

    - name: serviceDimension
      required: false
      description: Dimension name for the service name
    - name: dimensionHeaders
      required: false
      description: |

>         Map of "dimension name" to "header name", for inclusion in the meter record

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        The map of "dimension name" to "header name", for inclusion in the meter record.
```

    - name: replacements
      required: false
      default: |
        `{"/": ":"}`

>       description: Map of "old" to "new" values for transforming dimension values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      description: The map of "old" to "new" values for transforming dimension values.
```

---

> ### How it Works

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How it works
```

> This plugin will intercept the requests, detect which customer is making it, generate a meter event and send it to Amberflo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This plugin intercepts the requests, detects which customer is making it, generates a meter event and sends it to Amberflo.
```

> Customer detection happens via inspection of the request headers. You can configure Kong to inject the `customerId` as a header before this plugin runs. For instance, if you use the [Key Authentication](https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/key-auth/) plugin, this happens automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customer detection occurs via inspection of the request headers. You can configure {{site.base_gateway}} to inject the `customerId` as a header before this plugin runs. For example, if you use the [Key Authentication](https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/key-auth/) plugin, this occurs automatically.
```

> To avoid impacting the performance of your gateway, the plugin will batch the meter records and send them asynchronously to Amberflo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid impacting the performance of your gateway, the plugin batchs the meter records and sends them asynchronously to Amberflo.
```

## Installation

> This is a server plugin implemented in Go. You just need to make the binary available to Kong.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a server plugin implemented in Go. You only need to make the binary available to {{site.base_gateway}}:
```

```shell
GOBIN=/tmp go install github.com/amberflo/kong-plugin-amberflo@latest
mv /tmp/kong-plugin-amberflo /usr/local/bin/amberflo
```

> Then register the plugin in your `kong.conf` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, register the plugin in your `kong.conf` file:
```

```
plugins = bundled,amberflo

pluginserver_names = amberflo

pluginserver_amberflo_start_cmd = /usr/local/bin/amberflo
pluginserver_amberflo_query_cmd = /usr/local/bin/amberflo -dump
```

> And restart Kong:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, restart {{site.base_gateway}}:
```
